
GIT-DEBORIG(1)                                                  GIT-DEBORIG(1)

NAME
       git-deborig - try to produce Debian orig.tar using git-archive(1)

SYNOPSIS
       git deborig [--force|-f] [--just-print|--just-print-tag-names]
       [--version=VERSION] [COMMITTISH]

DESCRIPTION
       git-deborig tries to produce the orig.tar you need for your upload by
       calling git-archive(1) on an existing git tag or branch head.  It was
       written with the dgit-maint-merge(7) workflow in mind, but can be used
       with other workflows.

       git-deborig will try several common tag names.  If this fails, or if
       more than one of those common tags are present, you can specify the tag
       or branch head to archive on the command line (COMMITTISH above).

       git-deborig will override gitattributes(5) that would cause the
       contents of the tarball generated by git-archive(1) not to be identical
       with the commitish archived: the export-subst and export-ignore
       attributes.

       git-deborig should be invoked from the root of the git repository,
       which should contain debian/changelog.

OPTIONS
       -f|--force
           Overwrite any existing orig.tar in the parent directory.

       --just-print
           Instead of actually invoking git-archive(1), output information
           about how it would be invoked.  Ignores --force.

           Note that running the git-archive(1) invocation outputted with this
           option may not produce the same output.  This is because git-
           deborig takes care to disables git attributes otherwise heeded by
           git-archive(1), as detailed above.

       --just-print-tag-names
           Instead of actually invoking git-archive(1), or even checking which
           tags exist, print the tag names we would consider for the upstream
           version number in the first entry in the Debian changelog, or that
           supplied with --version.

       --version=VERSION
           Instead of reading the new upstream version from the first entry in
           the Debian changelog, use VERSION.

SEE ALSO
       git-archive(1), dgit-maint-merge(7), dgit-maint-debrebase(7)

AUTHOR
       git-deborig was written by Sean Whitton <spwhitton@spwhitton.name>.

Debian Utilities                  2020-02-13                    GIT-DEBORIG(1)