
MINGLE(1)                   General Commands Manual                  MINGLE(1)

delim $$

NAME
       mingle - fast edge bundling

SYNOPSIS
       mingle [ options ] [ -o outfile ] [ files ]

DESCRIPTION
       mingle takes as input a graph in DOT format with node position informa-
       tion (the pos attribute) and bundles the edges.

OPTIONS
       The following options are supported:

       -m k   indicates which method to use for bundling. A value of 0  corre-
              sponds  to a force-directed bundling.  A value of 2 uses a clus-
              ter plus ink saving approach. If available, a value 1 denotes an
              agglomerative  ink  saving method. Normally, the last is the de-
              fault.

       -a k   specifies the maximum turning angle, in degrees, as a  non-nega-
              tive  real.   The  larger the value, the more edges may bend. If
              the value is 0, there is no limitation on the turning angle. The
              default  is  40.   The  parameter  is not used in force-directed
              bundling.

       -c v   specifies which compatability measure to use. The value  0,  the
              default,  uses  a  distance metric, while a value of 1 relies on
              full compatability. This value is only  used  in  force-directed
              bundling.

       -i k   gives  the maximum number of iterative divisions of edges allowd
              in force-directed bundling.  The default is 4.

       -k k   gives the number of neighbors to be used in  forming  a  nearest
              neighbor graph. This parameter is only used in the agglomerative
              method. The default is 10.

       -K k   is a positive real value  giving  the  force  constant  used  in
              force-directed bundling. By default, the value is determined au-
              tomatically.

       -o file
              puts output in file. Default output is stdout

       -p k   Except for the force-directed method, bundling minimizes $ink  *
              (k  -  cos(turning angle))$. The larger the value of k, the less
              emphasis is put on avoiding sharp turning angles and the  faster
              the bundling.  The default value is -1.

       -r k   is  a  non-negative  integer  giving the maximum recursion level
              used in the agglomerative method. The default is 100.

       -T fmt specifies the output format. At present, the output is always in
              the  DOT  format.  If  fmt  is "simple", the output is a simple,
              schematic representation of the drawing. Only the node positions
              and  edges are retained from the original graph. If fmt is "gv",
              the drawing information is attached to the input graph.

       -v k   determines the verbose level used for tracing the algorithm. The
              value k is optional; if not provided, the value 1 is used.

       -?     Print usage and exit.

BUGS
       At present, mingle does not handle graphs with loops or directed multi-
       edges. So, a graph with edges a -> b and b -> a is acceptable, but  not
       if it has edges a -> b and a -> b or a -- b and a -- b.

AUTHOR
       Emden R. Gansner <erg@graphviz.org>, Yifan Hu <yifanhu@yahoo.com>

SEE ALSO
       sfdp(1), neato(1), gvpr(1)

       Emden  R.  Gansner,  Yifan Hu, Stephen C. North and Carlos Scheidegger,
       ``Multilevel  Agglomerative  Edge  Bundling   for   Visualizing   Large
       Graphs'', IEEE Pacific Visualization Symposium PacificVis, pp. 187-194,
       2011.

                                16 August 2013                       MINGLE(1)