
man(1)                          pdfxup man page                         man(1)

NAME
       pdfxup - n-up tool with reduced margins

SYNOPSIS
       pdfxup [OPTIONS] [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       pdfxup  creates a PDF document where each page is obtained by combining
       several pages of a PDF file given as output. The important  feature  of
       pdfxup,  compared  to similar programs, is that it tries to compute the
       (global) bounding box of the input PDF file, in  order  to  remove  the
       margins  and to keep the text only. Instead of having the font size di-
       vided by 2 (for the case of 2-up output), in some case you may  end  up
       with  almost  the same font size as in the original document (as is the
       case for a default 'article' document produced by LaTeX).

       pdfxup uses ghostscript for computing the maximal bounding box of (some
       of)  the  pages  of the document, and then uses pdflatex (with graphicx
       package) in order to produce the new document.

OPTIONS
       pdfxup accepts numerous options. The most important ones are:

       -x n, --columns n
              sets the number of columns in the output file (default 2);

       -y n, --rows n
              sets the number of lines in the output file (default 1);

       -l, --landscape
              sets orientation of paper (of final document) landscape;

       -b (le|se), --booklet (le|se)
              configure for printing as a booklet. Value 'le'  (which  is  the
              default  value when -b is used with no argument) means that two-
              sided printing is in 'long-edge' mode (you turn from one page to
              the  next along the long edge of the paper). 'se' is the 'short-
              edge' option.

       -c, --clip
              clip pages to the computed bounding box. By default, content  is
              not  clipped, which may result in overlap of neighbouring pages.
              With this option, anything outside the bounding box will not  be
              displayed.

       -o file, --output file
              name of output file;

       -i     ask before overwriting output file;

       -fw d, --framewidth d
              width  of the frame around each page (default 0.4pt). Set to 0pt
              to have no frame at all;

       -im d, --innermargins d
              inner margin between frame and page (default 5pt);

       -m d, --margins d
              margin of pages of the new document (default 5pt);

       -is d, --intspaces d
              space between different pages (default 1pt);

       -p list, --pages list
              only consider sublist of pages of  input  document.  List  is  a
              comma-separated list of pages or ranges pages of the form a-b; a
              can be omitted to start from first page, and b can be omitted to
              end  at  the last page. Therefore, "-p -" (which is the default)
              includes all pages. Also allows modulo, so that "-p  0%2"  would
              include only even-numbered pages.

       -bb list, --bb list
              only  consider  sublist of pages of input document for computing
              bounding box;

       -nobb list, --no-bb list
              omit list of pages of input document from computation of  bound-
              ing box;

       -g, --get-bb
              only compute (and output) bounding box;

       -s x y W H, --set-bb x y W H
              set the bounding box to the given values;

       -w file, --watermark file
              use  file  as  background  watermark. file can be any format ac-
              cepted by pdflatex (e.g. png or pdf). If file is a multipage PDF
              file,  page  n  of the watermark file is used with page n of the
              input file, and the last page of the watermark file is  repeated
              if the input file has more pages;

       -wp p, --watermark-period p
              repeat  the  last  p pages of the watermark file instead of only
              the last one;

       -d, --debug
              debug mode: keep intermediary files;

       -V [0-3], --verbose [0-3]
              select verbosity (default: 1);

       -q, --quiet
              run quietly (equiv. '-V=0');

       -v, --version
              print version number and exit;

       -h, --help
              print help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
       # pdfxup file.pdf
              produces 2-up pdf file from file.pdf

       # pdfxup -bb 1-4 file.pdf
              same behaviour, but computes the bounding  box  only  using  the
              first 4 pages (this saves time when processing long documents)

       # pdfxup -b -o booklet.pdf file.pdf
              same behaviour, but creates a booklet (as booklet.pdf)

       # pdfxup -kbb -x1 -y2 -l0 beamer-frames.pdf
              arranges 2 beamer frames per page (not reducing margins)

       # pdfxup -kbb -x2 -y2 -l beamer-frames.pdf:1-12,15-19
              arranges  4  beamer  frames per page (not reducing margins), in-
              cluding only frames 1 to 12 and 15 to 19.

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), pdflatex(1)

AUTHOR
       Nicolas Markey (pdfxup@markey.fr)

1.51                            06 january 2020                         man(1)