
REGEXP-ASSEMBLE(1p)   User Contributed Perl Documentation  REGEXP-ASSEMBLE(1p)

NAME
       regexp-assemble - Assemble a list of regular expressions from a file

SYNOPSIS
         regexp-assemble -abcdfinprsStTuUvw file [...]

DESCRIPTION
       Assemble a list of regular expression either from standard input or a
       file, using the Regexp::Assemble module.

OPTIONS
       -a   look Ahead. Insert "(?=...)" zero-width lookahead assertions in
            the pattern, where necessary.

       -b   Blank. Ignore blank lines.

       -c   Comment. Basic comment filtering. Strip off perl/shell comments
            ("\s*#.*$/").

       -d   Debug. Turns on debugging output. See Regexp::Assemble for
            suitable values.

       -i   Indent. Print the regular expression using and indent of n to
            display nesting. A.k.a pretty-printing. Implies -p.

       -n   No newline. Do not print a newline after the pattern. Useful when
            interpolating the output into a templating system or similar.

       -p   Print. Print the pattern. This is the default, however, it is
            required when the -t switch is enabled (because if you want to
            test patterns ordinarily you don't care what the the assembled
            pattern looks like).

       -r   Reduce. The default behaviour is to reduce the assembled pattern.
            Enabling this switch causes the reduction algorithm to be switched
            off. This can help you determine how much reduction is performed.

              regexp-assemble pattern.file | wc
              # versus
              regexp-assemble -r pattern.file | wc

       -s   Statistics. Print some statistics about the assembled pattern. The
            output is sent to STDERR (in order to allow the generated pattern
            to be redirected elsewhere).

       -S   Statistics only. Like -s, except that the pattern itself is not
            output. Useful with -d 8 to see the time taken.

       -t   Test. Test the assembled expression against the contents of a
            file.  Each line is read from the file and is matched against the
            pattern.  Lines that fail to match are printed. In other words, no
            output is good output. In this mode of operation, error status is
            1 in the case of a failure, 0 if all lines matched.

       -T   Time. Print statistics on the time taken to reduce and assemble
            the pattern. (This is merely a lazy person's synonym for "-d 8").

       -u   Unique. Carp if duplicate patterns are found.

       -U   Unroll. Transform "a+" et al into "aa*" (which may allow
            additional reductions).

       -v   Version. Print the version of the regexp-assemble script.

       -w   Word/Whole. When testing the contents of a file with "-t", bracket
            the expression with "^" and "$" in order to match the whole word
            or line from the file.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Will print out a summary of the problem if an added pattern causes the
       assembly to fail.

SEE ALSO
       Regexp::Assemble

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2004-2008 David Landgren. All rights reserved.

LICENSE
       This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.20.2                      2012-06-11               REGEXP-ASSEMBLE(1p)