
RPCBIND(8)                BSD System Manager's Manual               RPCBIND(8)

n

NAME
     rpcbind -- universal addresses to RPC program number mapper

SYNOPSIS
     rpcbind [-adhiLlsr]

DESCRIPTION
     The rpcbind utility is a server that converts RPC program numbers into
     universal addresses.  It must be running on the host to be able to make
     RPC calls on a server on that machine.

     When an RPC service is started, it tells rpcbind the address at which it
     is listening, and the RPC program numbers it is prepared to serve.  When
     a client wishes to make an RPC call to a given program number, it first
     contacts rpcbind on the server machine to determine the address where RPC
     requests should be sent.

     The rpcbind utility should be started before any other RPC service.  Nor-
     mally, standard RPC servers are started by port monitors, so rpcbind must
     be started before port monitors are invoked.

     When rpcbind is started, it checks that certain name-to-address transla-
     tion-calls function correctly.  If they fail, the network configuration
     databases may be corrupt.  Since RPC services cannot function correctly
     in this situation, rpcbind reports the condition and terminates.

     The rpcbind utility can only be started by the super-user.

OPTIONS
     -a      When debugging (-d), do an abort on errors.

     -d      Run in debug mode.  In this mode, rpcbind will log additional in-
             formation during operation, and will abort on certain errors if
             -a is also specified.  With this option, the name-to-address
             translation consistency checks are shown in detail.

     -f      Do not fork and become a background process.

     -h      Specify specific IP addresses to bind to for UDP requests.  This
             option may be specified multiple times and is typically necessary
             when running on a multi-homed host.  If no -h option is speci-
             fied, rpcbind will bind to INADDR_ANY, which could lead to prob-
             lems on a multi-homed host due to rpcbind returning a UDP packet
             from a different IP address than it was sent to.  Note that when
             specifying IP addresses with -h, rpcbind will automatically add
             127.0.0.1 and if IPv6 is enabled, ::1 to the list.

     -i      "Insecure" mode.  Allow calls to SET and UNSET from any host.
             Normally rpcbind accepts these requests only from the loopback
             interface for security reasons.  This change is necessary for
             programs that were compiled with earlier versions of the rpc li-
             brary and do not make those requests using the loopback inter-
             face.

     -l      Turn on libwrap connection logging.

     -s      Cause rpcbind to change to the user daemon as soon as possible.
             This causes rpcbind to use non-privileged ports for outgoing con-
             nections, preventing non-privileged clients from using rpcbind to
             connect to services from a privileged port.

     -w      Cause rpcbind to do a "warm start" by read a state file when
             rpcbind starts up. The state file is created when rpcbind termi-
             nates.

     -r      Turn on remote calls. Cause rpcbind to open up random listening
             ports. Note that rpcinfo need this feature turned on for work
             properly.

FILES
     If "/etc/default/rpcbind" exists, rpcbind will use the specified options
     at launch time rpcbind Otherwise rpcbind will try to load configuration
     from "/etc/rppcbind.conf" rpcbind The default options are set as "-w -f".

NOTES
     All RPC servers must be restarted if rpcbind is restarted.

SEE ALSO
     rpcinfo(8)

LINUX PORT
     Aurelien Charbon <aurelien.charbon@bull.net>

BSD                           September 14, 1992                           BSD