
CATALYST(1p)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         CATALYST(1p)

NAME
       catalyst - Bootstrap a Catalyst application

SYNOPSIS
       catalyst.pl [options] application-name

       'catalyst.pl' creates a skeleton for a new application, and allows you
       to upgrade the skeleton of your old application.

        Options:
          -force      don't create a .new file where a file to be created exists
          -help       display this help and exit
          -makefile   only update Makefile.PL
          -scripts    only update helper scripts

        application-name must be a valid Perl module name and can include "::",
        which will be converted to '-' in the project name.

        Examples:
           catalyst.pl My::App
           catalyst.pl MyApp

        To upgrade your app to a new version of Catalyst:
           catalyst.pl -force -scripts MyApp

DESCRIPTION
       The "catalyst.pl" script bootstraps a Catalyst application, creating a
       directory structure populated with skeleton files.

       The application name must be a valid Perl module name.  The name of the
       directory created is formed from the application name supplied, with
       double colons replaced with hyphens (so, for example, the directory for
       "My::App" is "My-App").

       Using the example application name "My::App", the application directory
       will contain the following items:

       README
           a skeleton README file, which you are encouraged to expand on

       Changes
           a changes file with an initial entry for the creation of the
           application

       Makefile.PL
           Makefile.PL uses the "Module::Install" system for packaging and
           distribution of the application.

       lib contains the application module ("My/App.pm") and subdirectories
           for model, view, and controller components ("My/App/M", "My/App/V",
           and "My/App/C").

       root
           root directory for your web document content.  This is left empty.

       script
           a directory containing helper scripts:

           "myapp_create.pl"
               helper script to generate new component modules

           "myapp_server.pl"
               runs the generated application within a Catalyst test server,
               which can be used for testing without resorting to a full-blown
               web server configuration.

           "myapp_cgi.pl"
               runs the generated application as a CGI script

           "myapp_fastcgi.pl"
               runs the generated application as a FastCGI script

           "myapp_test.pl"
               runs an action of the generated application from the command
               line.

       t   test directory

       The application module generated by the "catalyst.pl" script is
       functional, although it reacts to all requests by outputting a friendly
       welcome screen.

NOTE
       Neither "catalyst.pl" nor the generated helper script will overwrite
       existing files.  In fact the scripts will generate new versions of any
       existing files, adding the extension ".new" to the filename.  The
       ".new" file is not created if would be identical to the existing file.

       This means you can re-run the scripts for example to see if newer
       versions of Catalyst or its plugins generate different code, or to see
       how you may have changed the generated code (although you do of course
       have all your code in a version control system anyway, don't you ...).

SEE ALSO
       Catalyst::Manual, Catalyst::Manual::Intro

AUTHORS
       Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

COPYRIGHT
       This library is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.30.0                      2020-01-21                      CATALYST(1p)