
DEBSNAP(1)                    DebSnap User Manual                   DEBSNAP(1)

NAME
       debsnap - retrieve old snapshots of Debian packages

SYNOPSIS
       debsnap [options] package [version]

       debsnap [-h | --help] [--version]

DESCRIPTION
       debsnap  is  a  tool  to help with retrieving snapshots of old packages
       from a daily archive repository.

       The only publicly available snapshot archive is  currently  located  at
       https://snapshot.debian.org

       By  default, debsnap will download all the available versions for pack-
       age that are found in the snapshot archive.  If a version is specified,
       only that particular version will be downloaded, if available.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -d destination, --destdir destination
              Directory to place retrieved packages.

       -f, --force
              Force  writing into an existing destination.  By default debsnap
              will insist the destination directory does not exist yet  unless
              it is explicitly specified to be '.' (the current working direc-
              tory).  This is to avoid files being accidentally overwritten by
              what  is fetched from the archive and to provide a guarantee for
              other scripts that only the files fetched will be present  there
              upon completion.

       -v, --verbose
              Report on the debsnap configuration being used and progress dur-
              ing the download operation.  Please always use this option  when
              reporting bugs.

       --list Don't download but just list versions.

       --binary
              Download binary packages instead of source packages.

       -a, --architecture
              Specify  architecture  of  downloaded  binary  packages. Implies
              --binary.  This can be given multiple times in order to download
              binary packages for multiple architectures.

       --first
              Specify  the  minimum  version  of a package which will be down-
              loaded.  Any versions which compare larger than this,  according
              to dpkg, will be considered for download.  May be used in combi-
              nation with --last.

       --last Specify the maximum version of a package  which  will  be  down-
              loaded.   Any package versions which compare less than this, ac-
              cording to dpkg, will be considered for download.  May  be  used
              in combination with --first.

       -h, --help
              Show a summary of these options.

       --version
              Show the version of debsnap.

CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
       debsnap may also be configured through the use of the following options
       in the devscripts configuration files:

       DEBSNAP_VERBOSE
              Same as the command line option --verbose.  Set to  yes  to  en-
              able.

       DEBSNAP_DESTDIR
              Set  a  default  path  for  the destination directory.  If unset
              ./source-<package_name> will be used.  The command  line  option
              --destdir will override this.

       DEBSNAP_BASE_URL
              The base url for the snapshots archive.

              If unset this defaults to https://snapshot.debian.org

EXIT STATUS
       debsnap  will return an exit status of 0 if all operations succeeded, 1
       if a fatal error occurred, and 2 if some packages failed  to  be  down-
       loaded  but  operations otherwise succeeded as expected.  In some cases
       packages may fail to be downloaded because they are no longer available
       on  the  snapshot mirror, so any caller should expect this may occur in
       normal use.

EXAMPLES
       debsnap -a amd64 xterm 256-1
              Download the binary package of  a  specific  xterm  version  for
              amd64 architecture.

       debsnap -a armel xterm
              Download binary packages for all versions of xterm for armel ar-
              chitecture.

       debsnap --binary xterm 256-1
              Download binary packages for a specific xterm  version  but  for
              all architectures.

       debsnap --binary xterm
              Download  binary  packages for all versions of xterm for all ar-
              chitectures.

       debsnap -v --first 347-1 --last 348-2 xterm
              Download source packages for local architecture  of  xterm,  be-
              tween 347-1 and 348-2 revisions, inclusive, showing the progress
              when doing it.

       aptitude search '~i' -F '%p %V' | while read pkg  ver;  do  debsnap  -a
       $(dpkg-architecture -qDEB_HOST_ARCH) -a all $pkg $ver; done
              Download  binary  packages of all packages that are installed on
              the system.

FILES
       /etc/devscripts.conf
              Global devscripts configuration options.   Will  override  hard-
              coded defaults.

       ~/.devscripts
              Per-user  configuration  options.  Will override any global con-
              figuration.

SEE ALSO
       devscripts(1), devscripts.conf(5), git-debimport(1)

AUTHORS
       David Paleino <dapal@debian.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2010 David Paleino

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify  this  document
       under  the  terms  of  the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or (at
       your option) any later version published by the Free  Software  Founda-
       tion.

       On  Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License
       can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.

BUGS
   Reporting bugs
       The program is part of the devscripts package.  Please report bugs  us-
       ing `reportbug devscripts`

Debian devscripts                July 3, 2010                       DEBSNAP(1)