
defoma-app(1)               General Commands Manual              defoma-app(1)

NAME
       defoma-app - configure a specific application about fonts registered in
       Debian Font Manager.

SYNOPSIS
       defoma-app [options] clean application [category..]
       defoma-app [options] update application [category..]
       defoma-app [options] purge application
       defoma-app [options] ignore application [category..]

DESCRIPTION
       defoma-app is a tool to configure the fonts registered in  Defoma,  De-
       bian Font Manager, for a specific application. Defoma calls the Defoma-
       configuration script of the specified application with register or  un-
       register command for each of the fonts registered in the categories ac-
       cepted  by  the  application.   It  is  supposed  to  be  invoked  from
       postinst/prerm scripts of application packages, but may be invoked from
       console.

       application specifies the name of the application that is going  to  be
       configured.    The   specified   application   must  have  application-
       name.defoma perl script under /usr/share/defoma/scripts.   If  category
       is specified, only the fonts in the specified categories get processed.
       Otherwise all the fonts in all the categories accepted by the  applica-
       tion get processed.

COMMANDS
       update Update  the configuration of the specified application about the
              fonts registered in the specified  category.   category  can  be
              omitted.  When it is specified and the specified category is set
              ignored (to be mentioned later), ignore flag gets unset  so  the
              category  gets  updated.   Internally  the  Defoma-configuration
              script of the application gets called  with  unregister  command
              first  and then with register command for each font of the cate-
              gory. Some directories and symlinks specified in the  header  of
              the script might be generated automatically.
              This  command  should  be  invoked when the Defoma-configuration
              script is newly installed or updated so that the script gets in-
              stalled to Defoma data directory and the fonts get configured to
              the application. It means it is supposed to be  invoked  on  the
              postinst configure phase.

       clean  Clean  up  the  configuration of the specified application about
              the fonts registered in the specified category.  category can be
              omitted.  Internally  the Defoma-configuration script of the ap-
              plication gets called with unregister command for each  font  of
              the category.

       purge  This  command  is almost the same as clean command. It only dif-
              fers on removing the script installed in the defoma data  direc-
              tory  and  some directories and symlinks if any was generated in
              the update command before.
              This command should be  invoked  when  the  Defoma-configuration
              script  is  going  to be removed so that the script gets removed
              and the font configuration gets cleaned. It means it is supposed
              to be invoked on the prerm remove phase.

       ignore This  command  makes the specified application not use the fonts
              registered in the specified category.  It removes the  fonts  in
              the category out of the font configuration and sets the `ignore'
              flag against the category in order to make the Defoma-configura-
              tion script of the application not accept fonts in the category.
              If category is omitted, all categories gets  ignored.  To  unset
              the  `ignore'  flag,  run defoma-app with update command and the
              category against which you want to unset the flag.

OPTIONS
       -t     Exit with true value (0) even if error occurs.

       -v     Verbose output.

       -d     Debug/Testing mode.

       -q     Quiet output.

SEE ALSO
       defoma(1).

                                March  4, 2001                   defoma-app(1)