
DPUT(1)                     General Commands Manual                    DPUT(1)

NAME
       dput - Debian package upload tool

SYNOPSIS
       dput [-DPUVdflosu] [-c CONFIGFILE] [-e DAYS] [HOSTNAME[:ARGUMENT]]
            CHANGESFILE ...

       dput [-d] [-c CONFIGFILE] -H

       dput [-d] [-c CONFIGFILE] -p

       dput -h

       dput -v

DESCRIPTION
       Upload, to the Debian package upload queue, the files constituting  the
       package specified in each CHANGESFILE.

       A  Debian  package  release  comprises  several files, specified in the
       CHANGESFILE for that release. The Debian  Package  Upload  Tool  (dput)
       performs several verification checks on the package, then (if the veri-
       fications succeed) uploads those files to  the  remote  Debian  package
       repository.   See  VERIFICATION CHECKS, below, for a description of the
       checks dput can perform on each package.

       HOSTNAME is a name matching a host section in the dput.cf(5) configura-
       tion.  If  not  specified,  HOSTNAME  defaults  to the value of the de-
       fault_host_main configuration parameter.  You also can pass an argument
       to  the host by appending the hostname with a colon followed by the ar-
       gument. For example, you can upload easily to different launchpad  PPAs
       by  passing  the  PPAs'  id  to  the  ppa host without having to modify
       dput.cf.

       The file transfer method is determined by the method configuration  pa-
       rameter for the specified host. See dput.cf(5) for the set of supported
       method values.

       If the configuration specifies  a  pre_upload_command  for  the  remote
       host,  execute a shell subprocess for that command before attempting to
       upload each package.

       If the configuration specifies a  post_upload_command  for  the  remote
       host, execute a shell subprocess for that command after each successful
       package upload.

VERIFICATION CHECKS
       Each package release, as specified by a CHANGESFILE, is checked to  see
       whether it is suitable for upload. The following checks are available:

       Unique upload
              The  package should not already have been uploaded to the remote
              host HOSTNAME.

              Check for the log file created when dput successfully uploads  a
              package. If the corresponding log file already exists, abort the
              upload attempt.  This is unique only for the combination of  lo-
              cal  machine (where the upload log is recorded), the CHANGESFILE
              name, and the remote HOSTNAME.

              This check is disabled if the --force option is specified.

       Required package files
              The package should comprise the required files for the  type  of
              package.

              If  this  is  a  source package release, and the required source
              control file (.dsc) is not part of the package, abort the upload
              attempt.

              If  this is a source package release, and the version string im-
              plies that this is the first Debian release  for  this  version,
              and the corresponding source tarball is not part of the package,
              abort the upload attempt.

              If the package contains the upstream source tarball, but this is
              not  required  for  this release, emit a warning that the upload
              might be rejected by the remote host.

              If the package contains the Debian-native  source  tarball,  but
              this  is  not required for this release, emit a warning that the
              upload might be rejected by the remote host.

       Successful local install
              The package should be successfully installed on the  local  sys-
              tem.

              If  this  is  a  binary package release, and each binary package
              (.deb file) is not successfully installed on the local system at
              the specified version, abort the upload.

              This  check  is disabled by default. It is enabled when the con-
              figuration parameter check_version is true.

       Cryptographic signature
              The GnuPG signature on the CHANGESFILE should match that  file's
              contents.  If this is a source package release, the GnuPG signa-
              ture on the source control file (.dsc) should match that  file's
              contents.

              If GnuPG does not report a good signature for these files, abort
              the upload.

              This check is disabled when  either  the  allow_unsigned_uploads
              parameter is true, or the --check-only option is specified.

       Package files content match
              The  computed  size  and  hash  values for each constituent file
              should match the values specified in CHANGESFILE.

              For each file size and hash value specified in CHANGESFILE, com-
              pute the size and hash using the corresponding named file's con-
              tents on the filesystem.  If any computed  size  or  hash  value
              does not match the corresponding value in CHANGESFILE, abort the
              upload.

       Distribution name is permitted for the remote host
              The configuration for HOSTNAME should  permit  the  distribution
              name specified in the package.

              If  the package release's target Debian distribution name is not
              one specified by the distributions parameter for  the  HOSTNAME,
              abort  the upload attempt.  See dput.cf(5) for the distributions
              parameter.

       Lintian success
              The package should get a successful report from Lintian.

              Invoke the Lintian  tool  to  check  the  package  described  by
              CHANGESFILE.  If  the  check  is  unsuccessful (exit status non-
              zero), abort the upload attempt.

              This check is disabled by default. It is enabled when  the  con-
              figuration  parameter  run_lintian is true, or the --lintian op-
              tion is specified.

OPTIONS
       -c CONFIGFILE
       --config CONFIGFILE
              Use the file CONFIGFILE for configuration.  See  dput.cf(5)  for
              the specification of this file format.

       -d
       --debug
              Display debugging messages.

       -D
       --dinstall
              Request  a  dry run of dinstall on the remote host after the up-
              load.

       -f
       --force
              Disable the check for a unique upload.  See VERIFICATION CHECKS,
              above, for a description of this check.

       -h
       --help Display help information, then exit.

       -H
       --host-list
              Display  the  lists  of  hosts  known to the configuration, then
              exit.  See dput.cf(5) for the specification of hosts.

       -l
       --lintian
              Enable the Lintian verification check, and  exit  if  the  check
              fails.   See  VERIFICATION  CHECKS,  above, for a description of
              this check.

       -U
       --no-upload-log
              Do not write a log file when uploading files.

              This omits the record used later for checking whether an  upload
              is unique.  See VERIFICATION CHECKS, above, for a description of
              this check.

       -o
       --check-only
              Do not upload the files, and disable the checks for  unique  up-
              load  and  cryptographic  signature.   See  VERIFICATION CHECKS,
              above, for a description of these checks.

       -p
       --print
              Display the configuration that dput is using,  then  exit.   See
              dput.cf(5) for the configuration format.

       -P
       --passive
              Use  passive mode for FTP.  If not specified, default for FTP is
              active mode.

       -s
       --simulate
              Do not actually upload to the remote host.

       -u
       --unchecked
              Disable the check for cryptographic signature.  See VERIFICATION
              CHECKS, above, for a description of this check.

       -e DAYS
       --delayed DAYS
              Upload to a DELAYED queue, rather than the usual Incoming.  This
              takes a DAYS argument from 0 to 15. Note that a delay  of  0  is
              different from no delay at all.

       -v
       --version
              Display version information, then exit.

       -V
       --check-version
              Enable the check for successful local install.  See VERIFICATION
              CHECKS, above, for a description of this check.

ENVIRONMENT
       USER   If no username is specified for  authenticating  to  the  remote
              host, use the value of this variable.

FILES
       Configuration
              See dput.cf(5) for the files to configure dput.

       path/basename.HOSTNAME.upload
              The  log file that contains a record of the successful upload to
              HOSTNAME.

              path is the directory path of CHANGESFILE.

              basename is derived from the CHANGESFILE filename,  by  removing
              the directory path and the .changes suffix.

SEE ALSO
       dput.cf(5), dcut(1), lintian(1)

       'dput'   package  documentation  <file:///usr/share/doc/dput/>,  'dput'
       program files <file:///usr/share/dput/>.

Debian                            2016-12-31                           DPUT(1)