
gccmakedep(1)               General Commands Manual              gccmakedep(1)

NAME
       gccmakedep - create dependencies in makefiles using 'gcc -M'

SYNOPSIS
       gccmakedep  [  -sseparator  ]  [  -fmakefile ] [ -a ] [ -- options -- ]
       sourcefile ...

DESCRIPTION
       The gccmakedep program calls 'gcc -M' to output makefile rules describ-
       ing  the  dependencies  of each sourcefile, so that make(1) knows which
       object files must be recompiled when a dependency has changed.

       By default, gccmakedep places its output in the file named makefile  if
       it  exists, otherwise Makefile.  An alternate makefile may be specified
       with the -f option.  It first searches the makefile for a  line  begin-
       ning with

           # DO NOT DELETE

       or  one  provided with the -s option, as a delimiter for the dependency
       output.  If it finds it, it will delete everything following this up to
       the  end  of  the  makefile  and put the output after this line.  If it
       doesn't find it, the program will append the string to the makefile and
       place the output after that.

EXAMPLE
       Normally,  gccmakedep  will be used in a makefile target so that typing
       'make depend' will bring the dependencies up to date for the  makefile.
       For example,
           SRCS = file1.c file2.c ...
           CFLAGS = -O -DHACK -I../foobar -xyz
           depend:
                   gccmakedep -- $(CFLAGS) -- $(SRCS)

OPTIONS
       The  program will ignore any option that it does not understand, so you
       may use the same arguments that you would for gcc(1), including -D  and
       -U  options  to  define  and undefine symbols and -I to set the include
       path.

       -a     Append the dependencies to the file instead of replacing  exist-
              ing dependencies.

       -fmakefile
              Filename.   This  allows you to specify an alternate makefile in
              which gccmakedep can place its output.  Specifying  "-"  as  the
              file name (that is, -f-) sends the output to standard output in-
              stead of modifying an existing file.

       -sstring
              Starting string delimiter.  This option permits you to specify a
              different  string  for  gccmakedep  to look for in the makefile.
              The default is "# DO NOT DELETE".

       -- options --
              If gccmakedep encounters a double hyphen (--)  in  the  argument
              list,  then  any  unrecognized  arguments  following  it will be
              silently ignored.  A second double hyphen terminates  this  spe-
              cial  treatment.   In this way, gccmakedep can be made to safely
              ignore esoteric compiler arguments that might normally be  found
              in a CFLAGS make macro (see the EXAMPLE section above).  -D, -I,
              and -U options appearing between the pair of double hyphens  are
              still processed normally.

SEE ALSO
       gcc(1), make(1), makedepend(1).

AUTHOR
       The version of the gccmakedep included in this X.Org Foundation release
       was originally written by the XFree86 Project based on code supplied by
       Hongjiu Lu.

       Colin Watson wrote this manual page, originally for the Debian Project,
       based partly on the manual page for makedepend(1).

X Version 11                   gccmakedep 1.0.3                  gccmakedep(1)