
GPG-WKS-CLIENT(1)            GNU Privacy Guard 2.2           GPG-WKS-CLIENT(1)

NAME
       gpg-wks-client - Client for the Web Key Service

SYNOPSIS
       gpg-wks-client [options] --supported user-id
       gpg-wks-client [options] --check user-id
       gpg-wks-client [options] --create fingerprint user-id
       gpg-wks-client [options] --receive
       gpg-wks-client [options] --read

DESCRIPTION
       The  gpg-wks-client  is  used  to  send  requests  to a Web Key Service
       provider.  This is usuallay done to upload a key into a Web Key  Direc-
       tory.

       With  the  --supported  command the caller can test whether a site sup-
       ports the Web Key Service.  The argument is an arbitrary address in the
       to  be  tested  domain. For example 'foo@example.net'.  The command re-
       turns success if the Web Key Service is supported.   The  operation  is
       silent;  to get diagnostic output use the option --verbose.  See option
       --with-colons for a variant of this command.

       With the --check command the caller can test whether a key exists for a
       supplied  mail address.  The command returns success if a key is avail-
       able.

       The --create command is used to send a request for publication  in  the
       Web  Key  Directory.   The arguments are the fingerprint of the key and
       the user id to publish.  The output from the command is a properly for-
       matted  mail  with all standard headers.  This mail can be fed to send-
       mail(8) or any other tool to actually send that mail.   If  sendmail(8)
       is installed the option --send can be used to directly send the created
       request.  If the provider request a 'mailbox-only' user id and no  such
       user id is found, gpg-wks-client will try an additional user id.

       The  --receive  and  --read  commands  are used to process confirmation
       mails as send from the service provider.  The  former  expects  an  en-
       crypted  MIME  messages,  the latter an already decrypted MIME message.
       The result of these commands are another mail which can be send in  the
       same way as the mail created with --create.

       The  command  --install-key manually installs a key into a local direc-
       tory (see option -C) reflecting the structure of a WKD.  The  arguments
       are  a file with the keyblock and the user-id to install.  If the first
       argument resembles a fingerprint the key  is  taken  from  the  current
       keyring;  to  force  the  use of a file, prefix the first argument with
       "./".  If no arguments are given the parameters are  read  from  stdin;
       the expected format are lines with the fingerprint and the mailbox sep-
       arated by a space.  The command --remove-key removes a  key  from  that
       directory, its only argument is a user-id.

       The command --print-wkd-hash prints the WKD user-id identifiers and the
       corresponding mailboxes from the user-ids given on the command line  or
       via stdin (one user-id per line).

       The  command  --print-wkd-url prints the URLs used to fetch the key for
       the given user-ids from WKD.  The meanwhile preferred format with  sub-
       domains is used here.

       gpg-wks-client  is not commonly invoked directly and thus it is not in-
       stalled in the bin directory.  Here is an example how it can be invoked
       manually to check for a Web Key Directory entry for 'foo@example.org':

         $(gpgconf --list-dirs libexecdir)/gpg-wks-client --check foo@example.net

OPTIONS
       gpg-wks-client understands these options:

       --send Directly  send  created  mails  using the sendmail command.  Re-
              quires installation of that command.

       --with-colons
              This option has currently only an effect on the --supported com-
              mand.  If it is used all arguments on the command line are taken
              as domain names and tested for WKD support.  The  output  format
              is  one  line  per domain with colon delimited fields.  The cur-
              rently specified fields are (future versions may  specify  addi-
              tional fields):

              1 - domain
                     This  is  the  domain  name.  Although quoting is not re-
                     quired for valid domain names this field is specified  to
                     be quoted in standard C manner.

              2 - WKD
                     If  the value is true the domain supports the Web Key Di-
                     rectory.

              3 - WKS
                     If the value is true the domain supports the Web Key Ser-
                     vice protocol to upload keys to the directory.

              4 - error-code
                     This  may  contain  an gpg-error code to describe certain
                     failures.  Use 'gpg-error CODE' to explain the code.

              5 - protocol-version
                     The minimum protocol version supported by the server.

              6 - auth-submit
                     The auth-submit flag from the policy file of the server.

              7 - mailbox-only
                     The mailbox-only flag from the policy file of the server.

       --output file
       -o     Write the created mail to file instead of stdout.  Note that the
              value - for file is the same as writing to stdout.

       --status-fd n
              Write  special  status  strings  to the file descriptor n.  This
              program returns only the  status  messages  SUCCESS  or  FAILURE
              which  are  helpful  when the caller uses a double fork approach
              and can't easily get the return code of the process.

       -C dir
       --directory dir
              Use dir as top level directory for  the  commands  --install-key
              and --remove-key.  The default is 'openpgpkey'.

       --verbose
              Enable extra informational output.

       --quiet
              Disable almost all informational output.

       --version
              Print version of the program and exit.

       --help Display a brief help page and exit.

SEE ALSO
       gpg-wks-server(1)

GnuPG 2.2.19                      2019-11-23                 GPG-WKS-CLIENT(1)