
LNDIR(1)                    General Commands Manual                   LNDIR(1)

NAME
       lndir  -  create a shadow directory of symbolic links to another direc-
       tory tree

SYNOPSIS
       lndir [ -silent ] [ -ignorelinks ] [ -withrevinfo ] fromdir [ todir ]

DESCRIPTION
       The lndir program makes  a  shadow  copy  todir  of  a  directory  tree
       fromdir,  except  that  the shadow is not populated with real files but
       instead with symbolic links pointing at the real files in  the  fromdir
       directory tree.  This is usually useful for maintaining source code for
       different machine architectures.  You create a  shadow  directory  con-
       taining  links  to the real source, which you will have usually mounted
       from a remote machine.  You can build in the shadow tree, and  the  ob-
       ject  files  will be in the shadow directory, while the source files in
       the shadow directory are just symlinks to the real files.

       This scheme has the advantage that if you update the source,  you  need
       not  propagate the change to the other architectures by hand, since all
       source in all shadow directories are symlinks to the real  thing:  just
       cd to the shadow directory and recompile away.

       The  todir  argument is optional and defaults to the current directory.
       The fromdir argument may be relative (e.g., ../src) and is relative  to
       todir (not the current directory).

       Note  that  BitKeeper, CVS, CVS.adm, .git, .hg, RCS, SCCS, and .svn di-
       rectories are shadowed only if  the  -withrevinfo  flag  is  specified.
       Files with names ending in ~ are never shadowed.

       If  you  add files, simply run lndir again.  New files will be silently
       added.  Old files will be checked that they have the correct link.

       Deleting files is a more painful problem; the symlinks will just  point
       into never never land.

       If  a file in fromdir is a symbolic link, lndir will make the same link
       in todir rather than making a link back to the (symbolic link) entry in
       fromdir.  The -ignorelinks flag changes this behavior.

OPTIONS
       -silent
              Normally  lndir  outputs the name of each subdirectory as it de-
              scends into it.  The -silent option suppresses these status mes-
              sages.

       -ignorelinks
              Causes  the  program to not treat symbolic links in fromdir spe-
              cially.  The link created in todir will point back to the corre-
              sponding  (symbolic  link) file in fromdir.  If the link is to a
              directory, this is almost certainly the wrong thing.

              This option exists mostly to emulate the behavior the C  version
              of lndir had in X11R6.  Its use is not recommended.

       -withrevinfo
              Causes  any  source  control manager subdirectories (those named
              BitKeeper, CVS, CVS.adm, .git, .hg, RCS, SCCS, or  .svn)  to  be
              treated as any other directory, rather than ignored.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The  program displays the name of each subdirectory it enters, followed
       by a colon.  The -silent option suppresses these messages.

       A warning message is displayed if the symbolic link cannot be  created.
       The  usual  problem is that a regular file of the same name already ex-
       ists.

       If the link already exists but doesn't point to the correct  file,  the
       program prints the link name and the location where it does point.

SEE ALSO
       ln(1).

X Version 11                      lndir 1.0.3                         LNDIR(1)