
MK-BUILD-DEPS(1)                                              MK-BUILD-DEPS(1)

NAME
       mk-build-deps - build a package satisfying a package's
       build-dependencies

SYNOPSIS
       mk-build-deps --help|--version

       mk-build-deps [options] control file | package name ...

DESCRIPTION
       Given a package name and/or control file, mk-build-deps will use equivs
       to generate a binary package which may be installed to satisfy all the
       build dependencies of the given package.

       If --build-dep and/or --build-indep are given, then the resulting
       binary package(s) will depend solely on the
       Build-Depends/Build-Depends-Indep dependencies, respectively.

OPTIONS
       -i, --install
           Install the generated packages and its build-dependencies.

       -t, --tool
           When installing the generated package use the specified tool.
           (default: apt-get -o Debug::pkgProblemResolver=yes
           --no-install-recommends)

       -r, --remove
           Remove the package file after installing it. Ignored if used
           without the --install switch.

       -a foo, --arch foo
           Set the architecture of the produced binary package to foo. If this
           option is not given, fall back to the value given by --host-arch.
           If neither this option nor --host-arch are given but the Build-
           Depends contain architecture restrictions, use the value printed by
           `dpkg-architecture -qDEB_HOST_ARCH`.  Otherwise, use all.

           The package architecture must be equal to the host architecture
           except if the package architecture is all.

           The package architecture cannot be all if the build and host
           architecture differ.

       --host-arch foo
           Set the host architecture the binary package is built for. This
           defaults to the value printed by `dpkg-architecture
           -qDEB_HOST_ARCH`. Use this option to create a binary package that
           is able to satisfy crossbuild dependencies.

           If this option is used together with --arch, then they must be
           equal except if the value of --arch is all.

           If --arch is not given, then this option also sets the package
           architecture.

       --build-arch foo
           Set the build architecture the binary package is built for. This
           defaults to the value printed by `dpkg-architecture
           -qDEB_BUILD_ARCH`. Use this option to create a binary package that
           is able to satisfy crossbuild dependencies.

       -B, --build-dep
           Generate a package which only depends on the source package's
           Build-Depends dependencies.

       -A, --build-indep
           Generate a package which only depends on the source package's
           Build-Depends-Indep dependencies.

       -P, --build-profiles profile[,...]
           Generate a package which only depends on build dependencies with
           the build profile(s), given as a comma-separated list.  The default
           behavior is to use no specific profile.  Setting this option will
           override the DEB_BUILD_PROFILES environment variable.

       -h, --help
           Show a summary of options.

       -v, --version
           Show version and copyright information.

       -s, --root-cmd
           Use the specified tool to gain root privileges before installing.
           Ignored if used without the --install switch.

ENVIRONMENT
   External environment
       DEB_BUILD_PROFILES
           If set, it will be used as the active build profile(s) for the
           build dependencies to be installed.  It is a space separated list
           of profile names.  Overridden by the -P option.

AUTHOR
       mk-build-deps is copyright by Vincent Fourmond and was modified for the
       devscripts package by Adam D. Barratt <adam@adam-barratt.org.uk>.

       This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.  You are free to
       redistribute this code under the terms of the GNU General Public
       License, version 2 or later.

Debian Utilities                  2020-02-13                  MK-BUILD-DEPS(1)