
ORIGTARGZ(1)                                                      ORIGTARGZ(1)

NAME
       origtargz - fetch the orig tarball of a Debian package from various
       sources, and unpack it

SYNOPSIS
       origtargz [OPTIONS] [--unpack[=no|once|yes]]
       origtargz --help

DESCRIPTION
       origtargz downloads the orig tarball of a Debian package, and also
       unpacks it into the current directory, if it just contains a debian
       directory. The main use for origtargz is with debian-dir-only
       repository checkouts, but it is useful as a general tarball download
       wrapper. The version number for the tarball to be downloaded is
       determined from debian/changelog. It should be invoked from the top
       level directory of an unpacked Debian source package.

       Various download locations are tried:

       o   First, an existing file is looked for.

       o   Directories given with --path are searched.

       o   pristine-tar is tried.

       o   apt-get source is tried when apt-cache showsrc reports a matching
           version.

       o   Finally, uscan --download --download-current-version is tried.

       When asked to unpack the orig tarball, origtargz will remove all files
       and directories from the current directory, except the debian
       directory, and the VCS repository directories. Note that this will drop
       all non-committed changes for the patch system in use (e.g. source
       format "3.0 (quilt)"), and will even remove all patches from the
       package when no patch system is in use (the original "1.0" source
       format). Some VCS control files outside debian/ preserved
       (.bzr-builddeb, .bzr-ignore, .gitignore, .hgignore), if stored in VCS.

       The default behavior is to unpack the orig tarball if the current
       directory is empty except for a debian directory and the VCS files
       mentioned above.

NOTES
       Despite origtargz being called "targz", it will work with any
       compression scheme used for the tarball.

       A similar tool to unpack orig tarballs is uupdate(1). uupdate creates a
       new working directory, unpacks the tarball, and applies the Debian
       .diff.gz changes. In contrast, origtargz uses the current directory,
       keeping VCS metadata.

       For Debian package repositories that keep the full upstream source,
       other tools should be used to upgrade the repository from the new
       tarball. See gbp-import-orig(1) and svn-upgrade(1) for examples.
       origtargz is still useful for downloading the current tarball.

OPTIONS
       -p, --path directory
           Add directory to the list of locations to search for an existing
           tarball.  When found, a hardlink is created if possible, otherwise
           a symlink.

       -u, --unpack[=no|once|yes]
           Unpack the downloaded orig tarball to the current directory,
           replacing everything except the debian directory. Existing files
           are removed, except for debian/ and VCS files. Preserved are: .bzr,
           .bzrignore, .bzr-builddeb, .git, .gitignore, .hg, .hgignore, _darcs
           and .svn.

           no  Do not unpack the orig tarball.

           once (default when --unpack is not used)
               If the current directory contains only a debian directory (and
               possibly some dotfiles), unpack the orig tarball. This is the
               default behavior.

           yes (default for --unpack without argument)
               Always unpack the orig tarball.

       -d, --download-only
           Alias for --unpack=no.

       -t, --tar-only
           When using apt-get source, pass --tar-only to it. The default is to
           download the full source package including .dsc and .diff.gz or
           .debian.tar.gz components so debdiff can be used to diff the last
           upload to the next one. With --tar-only, only download the
           .orig.tar.* file.

       --clean
           Remove existing files as with --unpack. Note that like --unpack,
           this will remove upstream files even if they are stored in VCS.

SEE ALSO
       debcheckout(1), gbp-import-orig(1), pristine-tar(1), svn-upgrade(1),
       uupdate(1)

AUTHOR
       origtargz and this manpage have been written by Christoph Berg
       <myon@debian.org>.

Debian Utilities                  2020-02-13                      ORIGTARGZ(1)