
RCSDIFF(1)                  General Commands Manual                 RCSDIFF(1)

NAME
       rcsdiff - compare RCS revisions

SYNOPSIS
       rcsdiff  [  -ksubst  ]  [ -q ] [ -rrev1 [ -rrev2 ] ] [ -T ] [ -V[n] ] [
       -xsuffixes ] [ -zzone ] [ diff options ] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       rcsdiff runs diff(1) to compare two revisions of each RCS file given.

       Filenames matching an RCS suffix denote RCS files;  all  others  denote
       working files.  Names are paired as explained in ci(1).

       The  option  -q  suppresses diagnostic output.  Zero, one, or two revi-
       sions may be specified with -r.  The  option  -ksubst  affects  keyword
       substitution  when extracting revisions, as described in co(1); for ex-
       ample, -kk -r1.1 -r1.2 ignores differences in keyword values when  com-
       paring  revisions 1.1 and 1.2.  To avoid excess output from locker name
       substitution, -kkvl is assumed if (1) at most one  revision  option  is
       given,  (2) no -k option is given, (3) -kkv is the default keyword sub-
       stitution, and (4) the working file's mode would be produced by  co -l.
       See  co(1) for details about -T, -V, -x and -z.  Otherwise, all options
       of diff(1) that apply to regular files  are  accepted,  with  the  same
       meaning as for diff.

       If both rev1 and rev2 are omitted, rcsdiff compares the latest revision
       on the default branch (by default the trunk) with the contents  of  the
       corresponding  working  file.   This is useful for determining what you
       changed since the last checkin.

       If rev1 is given, but rev2 is omitted, rcsdiff compares  revision  rev1
       of the RCS file with the contents of the corresponding working file.

       If  both  rev1  and rev2 are given, rcsdiff compares revisions rev1 and
       rev2 of the RCS file.

       Both rev1 and rev2 may be given numerically or symbolically.

EXAMPLE
       The command

               rcsdiff  f.c

       compares the latest revision on the default branch of the RCS  file  to
       the contents of the working file f.c.

ENVIRONMENT
       RCSINIT
              Options  prepended to the argument list, separated by spaces.  A
              backslash escapes spaces within an option.  The RCSINIT  options
              are  prepended to the argument lists of most RCS commands.  Use-
              ful RCSINIT options include -q, -V, -x, and -z.

       RCS_MEM_LIMIT
              Normally, for speed, commands either memory  map  or  copy  into
              memory  the  RCS file if its size is less than the memory-limit,
              currently defaulting to ``unlimited''.   Otherwise  (or  if  the
              initially-tried speedy ways fail), the commands fall back to us-
              ing standard i/o routines.  You can adjust the memory  limit  by
              setting  RCS_MEM_LIMIT to a numeric value lim (measured in kilo-
              bytes).  An empty value is silently ignored.  As a side  effect,
              specifying RCS_MEM_LIMIT inhibits fall-back to slower routines.

       TMPDIR Name  of  the  temporary directory.  If not set, the environment
              variables TMP and TEMP are inspected instead and the first value
              found  is  taken;  if none of them are set, a host-dependent de-
              fault is used, typically /tmp.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Exit status is 0 for no differences during any comparison, 1  for  some
       differences, 2 for trouble.

IDENTIFICATION
       Author: Walter F. Tichy.
       Manual Page Revision: 5.9.4; Release Date: 2019-12-31.
       Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Thien-Thi Nguyen.
       Copyright (C) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 Paul Eggert.
       Copyright (C) 1982, 1988, 1989 Walter F. Tichy.

SEE ALSO
       ci(1), co(1), diff(1), ident(1), rcs(1), rcsmerge(1), rlog(1).

       Walter  F. Tichy, RCS--A System for Version Control, Software--Practice
       & Experience 15, 7 (July 1985), 637-654.

       The full documentation for RCS is maintained as a Texinfo  manual.   If
       the  info(1)  and RCS programs are properly installed at your site, the
       command

              info rcs

       should give you access to the complete manual.  Additionally,  the  RCS
       homepage:

              http://www.gnu.org/software/rcs/

       has news and links to the latest release, development site, etc.

GNU RCS 5.9.4                     2019-12-31                        RCSDIFF(1)