
SVN-CLEAN(1)                     User Commands                    SVN-CLEAN(1)

NAME
       svn-clean - Wipes out unversioned files from Subversion working copy

SYNOPSIS
       svn-clean [options] [directory or file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       svn-clean will scan the given files and directories recursively and
       find unversioned files and directories (files and directories that are
       not present in the Subversion repository). After the scan is done,
       these files and directories will be deleted.

       If no file or directory is given, svn-clean defaults to the current
       directory (".").

       svn-clean uses the SVN Perl modules if they are available. This is much
       faster than parsing the output of the svn command-line client.

OPTIONS
       -e, --exclude
               A regular expression for filenames to be exluded. For example,
               the following command will skip files ending in ".zip":

                       svn-clean --exclude '\.zip$'

               Multiple exclude patterns can be specified. If at least one
               matches, then the file is skipped. For example, the following
               command will skip files ending in ".jpg" or ".png":

                       svn-clean --exclude '\.jpg$' --exclude '\.png$'

               The following command will skip the entire "build"
               subdirectory:

                       svn-clean --exclude '^build(/|$)'

       -f, --force
               Files to which you do not have delete access (if running under
               VMS) or write access (if running under another OS) will not be
               deleted unless you use this option.

       -N, --non-recursive
               Do not search recursively for unversioned files and
               directories. Unversioned directories will still be deleted
               along with all their contents.

       -q, --quiet
               Do not print progress info. In particular, do not print a
               message each time a file is examined, giving the name of the
               file, and indicating whether "rmdir" or "unlink" is used to
               remove it, or that it's skipped.

       -p, --print
               Do not delete anything. Instead, print the name of every file
               and directory that would have been deleted.

       -?, -h, --help
               Prints a brief help message and exits.

       --man   Prints the manual page and exits.

AUTHOR
       Simon Perreault <nomis80@nomis80.org>

                                  2022-05-12                      SVN-CLEAN(1)